
The main executable jar file is featureselecion.jar


Run instructions

1. Download the jar file and store it in local folder
2. create a /data folder and / results folder in the same folder as the jar file
3. /data folder - contains the csv data file
4. /results folder - contains the results of the feature selection for the selected feature selection algorithm.
5. In the command line, go to the folder where the jar is saved and run the following command
Command:

java -jar featureselection.jar [name of the datatset] [csv dataset file]

example: java -jar featureselection.jar Strength train_Strength_nominal.csv

Once you run the jar below screen appears:

$ java -jar features_election.jar Strength train_Strength_nominal.csv
[GenericPropertiesCreator] classloader in use is not the system classloader: using static entries in weka/gui/GenericObjectEditor.props rather than dynamic class discovery.
Weka is loaded
Enter the choice to select which feature selection algorithm you would like to run:
1. Chi Square Score
2. Information Gain Score
3. ReliefF
4. Random Forest
5. Fisher Score
6. Laplacian Score
7. FCBF
8. CFS
9. mRmR
10. Kruskal Wallis
11. Gini Index
12. Analytic SVM

[Enter the number for which ever algorithm one would like to run on the dataset. for example if one would like to run Information Gain score algorithm, enter 2 and press the enter key]

Once the feature selection phase is completed, FSP by default runs the classifiers such as SVM, NB, Random Forest, J4.8, KNN on the dataset. For the classification phase, the classifiers use the optimal features selected by the feature selection algorithm for the given dataset.FSP provides perfromance measurements such as Accuracy, Precision, Recall and F-measure for each classifier. These performance measures are shown as output on the command line interface as well as written to an output file stored in the /results folder. All the performnace measures for each classifier are reported using 10-fold cross vlaidation.


DATA FILE FORMAT:

The jar accepts the csv file.

For a CSV file:
Include the header(column names) for the columns as the first row in the file followed by the data. 
The column representing the class must be named as "class" and must be the last column. 
For missing values just leave them blank. 

Example:

Iris Dataset

1 - sepal length in cm
2 - sepal width in cm
3 - petal length in cm
4 - petal width in cm
class: 
      -- Iris Setosa
      -- Iris Versicolour
      -- Iris Virginica

CSV file contains data in following format:

1,2,3,4,class  (Header)
5.1,3.5,1.4,0.2,Iris-setosa
4.9,3.0,1.4,0.2,Iris-setosa
4.7,3.2,1.3,0.2,Iris-setosa
4.6,3.1,1.5,0.2,Iris-setosa
5.0,3.6,,0.2,Iris-setosa  (row with missing value)


All of the above algorithms work with binary format dataset (0/1 format). 

Following algorithms work with both numeric and binary as well categorical data
Chi Square score, Information Gain Score, Fisher Score, FCBF, CFS, mRmR, Kruskal Wallis, Gini Index, Random Forest.






